nothing says adventure like taking to
the skies but the age-old dream of
flying as in without a plane has been
limited to parasailing BASE jumping or
skydiving lots of fun but kind of a
quick drill not anymore
an innovative team with their heads in
the clouds has developed a new way to
turn falling into fly man's press the
fly is exhilarating feeling we all are
addicted to it
the wingsuit is a new generation of
gliding technology that turns the
skydiver into a human hang glider
capable of flying longer and farther
than anything without an engine Tony
regalo is the designer who wants to get
airborne adventurers the chance to make
flying personal versus you know from a
parachute what are we getting here we
are
forwards wing suits have been around for
a few years but Tony's new airfoil shape
puts the wind beneath your wings by
dramatically slowing your fall and thus
extending the length of the flight these
so called Tony suits are a combination
of sub flex and para pack nylon fabrics
that stretch between your arms torso and
legs to create an airfoil the airfoil is
what creates the lift the colors are
what make you look like a superhero
skydiving is more or less a straight
drop but on wingsuits
the fabric between your arms and legs
creates lift and propels you forward
about two meters for every one you drop
the Tony suit takes it to the next level
air intakes on the shoulders allow the
wings to inflate creating genuine
airfoil shapes that give you a lot more
lift with the Tony suit you fly 3.6
meters forward for every meter you drop
a single flight can extend more than six
horizontal miles
you just got a whole deposition you
gotta rotate a little bit point your
toes and stick it out and it'll make you
fly like a bird Tony's team of fantastic
Flyers includes Jeff Nabokov and taya
wife a skydiver basically Falls at 120
miles an hour from a skydive about on
their belly or upward of 180 miles an
hour if they're standing up or falling
head relative to earth we with our
wingsuit can fall as slow as 30 miles an
hour and actually ascend you dive and
pick up enough speed you can actually
curve out of and do a swoop and ascend
and actually gain altitude we inflate
our wings extend our legs and as we do
that the cells of our wingsuit inflate
with air and we literally push across
the sky using gravity as an engine to
glide as far as six miles at a time
so if you want to experience the ocean
get out of the boat if you want to
experience this guy get out of the plane
but if you want to experience real human
flight put on a wingsuit flying like
Superman requires lots of training for a
mild-mannered tech guy like myself plus
I've never jumped out of a plane before
so I'm gonna have to summon up some
superhuman courage
first I'm taken to a dress rehearsal on
this outdoor wind tunnel a vertically
mounted jet engine creates a stationary
skydiving experience where I can get a
feel for how to manipulate my body and
control my movements in a freefall
then after my amateur antics I get to
see how the pros do it
okay you want the good news or the bad
news good news the good news is we're
going wingsuiting great bad news is you
can't come you gotta have 200 jumps how
long does it take to get 200 jumps six
months alright we'll come back in six
months
hold everything it's cool man even in a
wingsuit flying is serious business so
I'm gonna have to sit this one out while
the experts take flight this is the
ultimate feeling of freedom it's not
just falling through the sky it's it's
gliding it's really a sense of being
able to guide your body to choose your
path a wingsuit flier takes the leap at
about 13,000 feet and immediately picks
up the tailwind of the aircraft
but once the fall begins Tony's special
wingsuit design makes the most of the
lift created by the up rushing air like
the wings of a sea bird that sails
enormous distances the new wingsuit
design greatly extends the length of the
flight by slowing the vertical drop
while maintaining a horizontal speed of
120 miles per hour while a normal
skydiver deploys his chute at about
2,500 feet the sky flier releases it at
about a thousand feet he unzips the arm
wings and comes in for a daredevil
high-speed land
the horizontal speed the wingsuit
generates in flight means landings are
ridiculously fast if wingsuit flyers are
ever going to achieve their bird-like
goal of landing without a parachute
they're gonna have to work out how to
slow down in the final stretch
whether people actually get to land
these things that'll depend on other
things your rocket technology whether we
can get the thrust to sort of slow our
descent but right now we're happy using
parachutes that's for sure
30 years from now I would say you're
gonna see big world-record formations of
hundreds and hundreds of wingsuit flyers
here's a tip to the bird watchers of the
future that high-flying bird of prey
could be a thrill seeker cruising on
nylon wings people have wanted to fly
for ages we've built contraptions jump
from towers and planes now we've turned
our entire bodies into wings and gotten
closer to human flight than we've ever
been creating an entirely new category
of adventure
Icarus he just had the wrong equipment
what he needed was a wingsuit